Previously on
Remember the Wife of Lot.
I’m going to real estate classes.
What?
We didn’t talk about this!
Why?
If you made more money,
I wouldn’t have to!
Gloria, wait.
I’ve decided something.
What is it?
To start studying
the Bible together.
Do you mean you want me
to become a priest?
Come on, Rick.
It’s Jehovah’s Witnesses,
isn’t it, Dad?
What are you trying to say?
All I see is an unhappy man.
You have no idea how much
pressure Gloria is putting on me.
You’re not the same person
that I once knew.
Everybody, squeeze in.
Smile.
How did it turn out?
Oh, it turned out good.
Oh, it’s nice.
Very nice.
It’s very nice.
Sure.
It was time for something new.
Actually,
we got many new things.
We even got a new piano for Anna.
Oh, nice.
Yeah.
Oh, Brian is home.
Have some dessert, OK?
Thank you.
Hey, Brian.
Hey.
I’ve invited some relatives for dinner.
Yeah, so I see.
Are you hungry?
Do you want some?
Oh, here are the oranges.
Oh, thank you.
Hey, let’s go.
Come on.
Wait a minute.
Hold—hold on, Gloria.
Why did you arrange
this without telling me?
Well, surprise!
Why did you arrange
this without telling me?
I thought it would be nice
to have a family dinner.
But none of them are in the truth.
How else are we
going to witness to them?
They’re only here to socialize.
They’re not here
to talk about Jehovah.
Come on, Brian.
They’re family.
Let’s go and talk.
Oh.
Is your mother OK?
Eh, she’s fine.
Hey, Henry.
Hey.
I’ll let you guys talk.
Oh, OK.
Hello, Henry, how are you?
OK.
We haven’t seen much of you lately.
Yeah, well,
we’ve been pretty busy.
Busy?
Well, I can tell
you spend a lot of time
with your church but not with us.
We feel really left out.
Hey, guys.
Hey.
How are you guys doing?
We have other relatives
who are Christians.
I mean, they really spend time
with us during holidays.
Henry, as I’ve explained before,
when we became Witnesses,
there are just certain practices
we don’t want to compromise on.
Our beliefs are very important to us.
Between that and—and work,
we really do have busy schedules.
Well, speaking of work, um,
I’m out of work at this moment.
I’m sorry to hear that, Henry.
So if you hear of any job openings,
I mean, I’ve got a lot of experience.
Would you excuse us for a moment?
Of course.
Gloria,
recently you have done well.
I must congratulate you
on your hard work with my company.
Thank you, Uncle.
But do not forget, it’s not just your
hard work that has given you all this.
Yes, Uncle.
I understand,
and thank you for everything.
Then you must not let me down.
What do you mean, Uncle?
I am talking about your priorities.
What about them?
You must learn to keep
your religion in its place.
Of course,
you can have your God,
but it must not interfere
with what’s most
important in your life
—your relatives and your career.
Your religion gets in the way
of what’s expected of you.
Well, Uncle, I understand
how important those things are to you
and to all of my relatives,
but as I explained to you before,
when I became
one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
spiritual things also
became very important to me.
Yes.
And I have never agreed
with your choice, have I?
No.
And yet I’ve given you this job.
I helped you get
this beautiful apartment
because the way
you live reflects on me.
You know that since
your father passed away,
I’ve taken
the responsibility as family head
towards you as well as
your mother and your brother.
Have you forgotten
all I have done for you?
No.
I do remember.
Then you must serve my company
and work hard for me.
This is for family, Gloria.
This must be your priority.
You must make me proud.
Remember what I’ve said to you.
You could lose all this very easily.
Do you understand?
Yes, I understand.
Good.
Mom, why are you
reading a medical book?
I’m reading about my problem.
Problem?
What problem?
The pain in my back.
You didn’t tell me you had any pain.
I called you three times,
but you didn’t answer.
Mom, I didn’t see any calls from you.
I wouldn’t need to call you
if you would visit me.
I hardly see you anymore
since you moved here.
Mom, I came by only three days ago.
One day, you’ll come by
and find me on the floor,
not breathing.
I want you to take me to the doctor.
Go ahead and laugh.
Are you going to follow
his instructions this time?
At this rate,
I may not be around
to see my granddaughters get married.
Mom, listen.
We’re going to see
the doctor tomorrow.
OK?
Gloria,
when you were little,
my mom used to live with us
and later your father’s mother too.
Remember that?
Yes.
My apartment is not like this,
big and warm.
Mine is cold and drafty,
you know?
I think that’s why I have this pain.
Come on, Mom.
“That’s why I have this pain.”
Oh, she wants to move in with us.
Oh, man.
Hey.
Oh, Brother Williams’ next visit
is the third week of March.
That’s the same week
of the Memorial.
So make sure you
put that in your calendar.
OK.
Oh, I have a big showing
on the same day as the Memorial.
It—it’s the new property
that Uncle asked me to handle.
The—the day of the Memorial?
Yeah.
Ah, it’s OK.
I—I can get Marty to cover
for me once I set up.
OK, you better make sure
that he can handle that.
Yeah, I will.
All right.
Hey, what were you and Uncle
talking about on the balcony tonight?
It’s nothing.
We were just talking about business.
Are you sure?
Because it seemed
like it bothered you.
Well,
he’s putting a lot of pressure on me.
It’s OK.
I can handle it.
Really?
I mean, but can we?
What do you mean?
I’m just saying, look at us.
Actually,
Joe spoke with me today.
About what?
Well, he’s concerned
about us spiritually.
He feels we’ve become materialistic.
Joe doesn’t understand our background.
And is it really wrong
to try to improve our life?
No, but, not if it
means putting anything
or anyone ahead of Jehovah.
But don’t you think that we need to make
some sacrifices if we want nice things?
We have made sacrifices,
all the wrong ones.
You’ve even had to quit pioneering.
We’re neglecting
family worship, study, service.
We’ve even become too busy,
or maybe too ashamed,
to even pray together.
Gloria, we’re drifting
apart from each other.
But look at this place.
It is so nice.
I don’t want to give it up.
Gloria,
we don’t want this place if it takes us
or you away from Jehovah.
Besides, we haven’t been able
to rent out the old place yet.
We have two mortgages.
But more than that, Gloria,
think of all we taught
the girls when they were little
about putting Jehovah
ahead of everything else.
Do you remember
Brother Williams’ talk a couple years ago
about not being able
to serve two masters
and how Lot’s wife
put her home ahead of Jehovah?
Jesus told her story
as a lesson for us.
We have to
“remember the wife of Lot.”
It didn’t have to end
that way for her,
and it doesn’t have
to end that way for us.
Do you think we are that bad?
Come here.
I want us to get back
to where we were, spiritually.
I want you close
to me again, remember?
Let’s say a prayer.
OK.
Jehovah God, our heavenly Father,
we come before you.
We pray all of this in Jesus’ name.
Amen.
We can turn this around.
We can do it.
OK?
Jehovah will help us.
OK.
I’m proud of you.
I’m going to finish cleaning up, OK?
OK.
We have to
“remember the wife of Lot.”
It didn’t have to end that way for her,
and it doesn’t
have to end that way for us.
“Remember the wife of Lot.”
Hey, so I was wondering, tomorrow,
what time do you think we’ll finish?
Look, Anna,
we’re really behind schedule,
so I need you
to be a team player on this.
OK.
When have I not been a team player?
Some people on the team feel
that you’re getting special treatment
because we’re related,
and I have to make sure
that everyone gets treated equally.
When have I ever
asked for special treatment?
It’s your church meetings, Anna.
If we’re all working overtime,
I can’t keep covering for you
so you can go while everyone else stays.
But you said when I started
that it wouldn’t be a problem.
Look, I remember what I said,
but things change, Anna.
And if you want
to be part of this team,
you need to do your part,
and that’s starting now.
We’re working overtime every night
this week until we get caught up.
Every night?
I can’t do that, Kevin.
Tomorrow is a really
important meeting; it’s the Memorial.
I told you already.
I remember,
but I can’t
make an exception for you.
But who knows?
Maybe if we work hard enough,
we’ll get caught up and you could still go.
Fine.
Hey, it’s close to lunch.
Let’s grab the rest of the team
and get some food,
and we can talk about this later.
OK?
Fine.
Nice haircut, by the way.
Thanks,
my dad doesn’t like it though.
Of course.
It was so gross.
Hey, look at those
religious fanatics over there.
I bet they get along great
with your strict parents.
Hey, Anna!
Did you see that?
These are the
top headlines from BNC News.
Death tolls continue to rise
in the wake of a massive earthquake
with a magnitude of 8.1
that struck off the northern coast
of Taiwan on Tuesday
and was felt as far away
as Tokyo, Japan.
The resulting tsunami has caused
devastation in the entire region.
Meanwhile, the global financial
meltdown continues to plague stocks
as market prices dropped
drastically once again today.
China’s government suspended
trading early in fears of a sell off.
Hello?
Gloria.
Hi.
I was just catching up
on where we stand.
I’m really looking forward
to helping out with this new property.
Yes, Marty, remember,
the showing is on for tomorrow.
And you can still help me out
when I need to leave, right?
Yes, of course.
I wouldn’t miss it.
There’s going to be a ton
of big investors there.
Just be sure you
can be there on time.
I have to leave once
everything is set up.
And this is really
important to me, Marty.
I’m counting on you.
Absolutely,
anything for you.
Talk to you later, bye.
You made sure
with Marty that he can cover?
Yes, he’ll be there.
Well, why don’t you come over?
We’re going to start
our Memorial Bible reading.
OK.
OK, so we’re starting with Mark 14:1.
Anna?
I thought you had a big day at work.
I did.
Then why are you home so early?
I just—
I’m just so ashamed of myself.
Ashamed?
Honey, come over here.
Anna,
what are you talking about?
I saw Mary and Ricky
out in service today.
I couldn’t even acknowledge them.
Mom, I don’t know why
I’m doing this anymore.
The people I’m working with,
they’re not who I thought they were.
And this job,
it’s not making me happy.
And I know it’s
not making Jehovah happy.
Anna, you can’t just quit like this.
I want you
to have a comfortable life
so that you don’t need
to worry about money.
You have to be successful
with a secure job and it will—
it will help you to pioneer.
Mom.
I know you care about me,
but if I keep this job,
I know where it will take me.
It’s changed me so much already.
I want to be a success,
but I want to be a success
in Jehovah’s eyes.
I had no idea you felt that way.
I am sorry.
Are you sure that’s
what you want to do?
Yes.
Anna,
I am so proud of you
because you have the courage to do
what I should have done.
So,
what are we going to do now?
We need to examine
our priorities together.
But if we make
the changes that we need to,
we might give up this place.
Is that all right with everyone?
Finally.
I never liked this place anyway.
Really?
Yeah.
Can we at least
keep the new piano?
Only if we do something
about your hair first.
Good point.
Can I help you?
Hey, good morning, Sir.
How are you?
Good.
Thank you.
My name is Joe,
and this morning
we’re leaving this invitation
with your neighbors.
This is your copy here.
OK, thank you.
OK.
Director Williams,
this is a nice surprise.
I haven’t seen you since you
were overseeing our division.
Donald,
I didn’t know this was your home.
Yeah, but I mean,
what brings you here?
Well, I’ve changed careers.
Really?
Yes.
You must have gotten
a really good offer.
You know, Donald,
I finally found a far better career
and something more important.
Really?
If you have a moment,
I’d love to tell you about it.
Yeah, would you guys like to come in
for some coffee or something?
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah, yeah, sure, thanks.
Thank you.
Morning.
Hello.
OK, uh, what are you
guys going to sell me today?
Nothing, Sir.
We have an invitation for you.
It’s, uh, to a special event tonight.
OK, sure, thanks.
Hey, aren’t you Arthur Gomez?
Yeah, Joe’s boy,
and you must be his wife, um—
Mary.
Mary, that’s right.
I’m sorry,
have we met before?
Oh, yeah, sorry.
You probably
wouldn’t remember me.
But I used to work with Joe.
Yeah, and he would
always show us pictures
of the boys and talk
about you guys all the time.
I could tell he was
really proud of his family.
That’s really nice of you to say, Sir.
Man, Joe, he changed so much.
I remember when
I first started working with him,
he had this temper, and he would
just lose it over the smallest thing.
But then he really started changing.
I guess he said it was
what he learned from the Bible,
well, from you guys, right?
Actually, you’d be surprised.
It was Joe who first suggested
that we study the Bible as a family, not us.
Really?
Yeah.
OK, this I’ve got to hear.
Do you ever really regret
your decision you made to uh,
you know, leave your career
and start pioneering?
Absolutely not.
My only regret is
that I hadn’t started sooner.
It sounds really nice.
Thanks, Anna.
What?
Is there something
wrong with my hair?
Tina helped me fix it yesterday.
It’s fine, Anna.
You’re beautiful.
Do you know that?
Why are you
getting all sentimental?
Well, last night, when
I told you I was proud of you,
I meant it.
Thank you.
I should have never
pushed you into that internship.
I was pressuring you the way
my mother tried to pressure me.
It’s OK, Mom.
I know you just
want what’s best for me.
I do,
but I was setting
a bad example for you.
You don’t need
a prestigious job to pioneer.
You just need something
appropriate to help you make a living.
But I left out the most important thing.
What’s that?
Remember to rely on Jehovah,
and he will always help us.
Before this job,
when I was pioneering,
we always had enough.
If we put Jehovah first,
he will help us no matter what.
Anna, everything comes at a cost.
If you put your career first,
like I’ve been doing,
there’s very little left for Jehovah.
You made the right decision.
Thank you.
Hey, you girls look
like you’re enjoying yourselves.
Did you pick out
your outfits for tonight?
Yep.
But, Mom, do you really have to go
to that showing tonight?
I don’t want to,
but I gave my word to Uncle,
and he’s expecting me
to take care of it.
I got myself into this,
and now I have to finish it.
But this is the last time.
Don’t worry.
OK, so you’re not going
to be late, right?
I won’t be late.
Marty will be there,
and as soon as everything is set up,
I can leave.
Nothing will happen.
OK.
I just want to make sure that
this isn’t going to be a problem.
It won’t be.
Mom,
promise me you’ll
be at the Memorial.
I promise.
OK.
I have to leave now or I’ll be late.
We’ll see you there.
Yeah, I’ll see you there.
“Hi.
“You’ve reached Marty.
“I’m out of the office.
Please leave me a message.”
Marty, this is Gloria.
Where are you?
I’m at the showing now.
You know I’m counting
on you to be here.
Just—just call me back right away.
OK?
Excuse me.
I need approval on what time
to serve the hors d’oeuvres.
I mean,
as soon as guests are arriving.
You know, check with Marty
when he gets here.
He’s supposed
to be handling all of this.
Oh, and make sure the wine
is open now so it can breathe, OK?
People are starting to arrive.
Surely you want me
to serve something.
Serve something now then.
Go ahead.
Figure something out.
Hello, Sir.
Where is the list of property details?
Yes, I can get one for you, Sir.
Can I ask you, who is
the agent you are working with?
Uh, yes, I’m working with Marty.
Where is he?
Marty, yes, he’s on his way, Sir.
He will be here very soon.
In the meantime, would you
like to have something to drink?
Sure.
Come this way, please.
Girls, you look nice.
Thanks, Dad.
Is Mom on her way to the hall?
You know what?
Let me check.
Um, let me send her a quick text.
I mean, think about it
—privacy, outdoor living.
Where can you
get it in the city, right?
Hmm, it’s true.
Excuse me.
I have to talk
to other clients as well.
OK, thank you.
Excuse me.
How is it going, everyone?
Are you guys doing OK?
Oh, yes, good.
When is Marty going to be here?
He was supposed to show me
some other offerings in this building.
Yes,
Marty will be here very soon, Sir.
Um, would you care
for another glass of wine?
I can’t stay long.
I have another
important meeting tonight.
Did she text back?
No, I don’t see anything yet.
Dad, why don’t you just call her?
She probably didn’t see your text.
Or she could be on her
way to the hall already.
Yeah, that’s a good point.
Let me just give her a quick call.
Hello?
Hey,
the Memorial is going
to start in less than an hour.
Did you leave yet?
I can’t leave yet.
What?
I thought you made arrangements
so that you could leave whenever you want?
I know, I know.
Marty said he was going to be here,
but I can’t reach him now.
Gloria, what are you going to do?
I’ll figure something out.
I have to go, OK?
Dad,
where is Mom?
She is coming, right?
She promised.
Yeah, she said she’d be there.
Yeah, I know, girls.
Marty is not there yet.
I don’t know what
your mom is going to do.
Promise me,
you’ll be at the Memorial.
I promise.
Mom.
Don’t look back.
“Remember the wife of Lot.”
Gloria, what’s wrong?
Are you OK?
Marty!
Finally!
You’re here!
Where were you?
Do you know how
many times I called you?
I’m so sorry, Gloria.
My phone died on the way over here,
and the traffic is just terrible!
Well, look, I’ve got everything set up.
Make sure you
take care of everybody, OK?
And do not forget the lease details.
And before I go, I have to introduce
you to really important brokers.
Go!
Let’s go!
Hurry!
The friends are here.
How are you all?
Welcome.
Come on in.
Hey.
Nice to see you,
my brother.
Gloria!
Oh, Uncle.
Where are you going?
Oh, Uncle, I-I didn’t know
you were coming tonight.
You didn’t think I would give you
such an important building
to sell and not check in on you?
Uncle, we have a really important
religious observance tonight.
I did everything you asked me
to do for the showing,
but I have to leave now.
That’s nonsense.
You stay right here
and care for the investors.
But, Uncle,
I did everything for you.
Will you disgrace me here
in front of everyone?
You have my respect,
Uncle, but I—
But what?
There is no discussion.
Remember who
it is you are speaking to.
I have to go, Uncle.
This is most important to me.
Jehovah is most important to me.
Please understand.
If you leave now,
you will lose everything.
We invite all
to please find their seats.
Our program will begin
in just a few minutes.
Welcome to the observance
of the Memorial
of our Lord and Savior,
Jesus Christ.
To begin our program tonight,
we ask all to please stand.
We’ll be singing song number 147,
entitled “A Special Possession.”
That night changed me forever.
I came so close
to letting my relationship
with Jehovah
slip through my fingers.
I almost ended up like a woman
in the Bible I would
never want to imitate.
Thankfully,
I was able to change in time
because I
‘remembered the wife of Lot.’